---
title: ''
date: Tue, 22 Jan 2008 07:07:00 +0000
draft: true
tags: ['Blog']
---

A bird chirped in the distance. I realize I must be awake. I can feel the scratch of the sheet on my shoulder. Slowly, the World turns from black to white to that color the back of your eyelids are. My eyes must be closed. My lower back has a little bit of a crick in it, and my right side has fallen asleep. I roll onto my back to remedy the situation. I feel her arm lie across my chest, and open my eyes slowly. They've already adjusted for the light on the porch. The ceiling could really use some cleaning; a spider web hangs above us. I look down the length of the bed at the screened windows. Sunlight streams in, and it's clear the time is almost noon. It must be Saturday because the alarm didn't go off. At least, I hope it's Saturday. A startled glance at my watch on the wicker chair disturbs Kelly's sleep and I feel her eyes open. The lashes tickle as the brush against my earlobe. Her hand traces its way along the sheets to my rib cage, then up to a nipple. Texas summers get hot, but there's usually a breeze where we are, so we moved her bed to the screened in porch to keep cool. It was nice enough that we didn't need to turn on the air conditioning, which was good because the damn thing was broken. She had asked me over to fix the thermostat, but it turned out to be a problem with the compressor. She was too hot, and told me something was wrong with her personal compressor, one thing led to another, we've been together now for almost a year. I still need to fix that air conditioning. Her index finger rubs just underneath, then swirls upwards avoiding the nub. Her hand goes flat against my stomach as she props herself up on her arm. The hand starts up again moving to the other nipple. "How did you get this?" She asks. She has found something on the bottom of my right pectoral. I'm not sure I can move my arm. It feels like it's in another dimension. Maybe I didn't really wake up, just my head did, and the rest of my body really can't move. I put that thought aside to smoosh down the breast and look for what she's found. It's a one inch scar directly below the nipple, colored gray. "What?" I feign ignorance. "This!" She slaps me hard enough to leave an imprint of her hand. I pretend like I don't feel it. "Oh, this?" I roll her hard onto her back and attack her belly button with my lips. FBBBBBBRRRRTTTTT She pushes me off and onto my back. For some reason, girls really don't find fart noises funny. "Well," I sigh, "I'll tell you. It was a dark stormy night." She laughs, curling her knees up to those breasts. "Not a very good way to start a story." "You're right, most nights are dark. This one was too but it wasn't stormy." "That's better." "So anyway, a dark and stormy night." She rolls onto her side facing me. I remain intently focused on the ceiling, despite the urge to look back into her eyes. When you tell a doozy like this, you have to pretend to concentrate. I lose my concentration and glance at her in my periphery. "This was back when I worked Memphis. We had a night shift rotation down, and it was my turn. I was out walking the street sometime after midnight. We didn't get a lot of action, it was always pretty quiet, but you know, somebody's got to do it." I'm a cop, by the way. "Sure Mr. Big Shot Hero." You know she likes it. The wind was really blowing that night. Memphis usually sucked in the summer. It was hot and humid during the day, and sometimes it stayed hot and humid at night. The sun goes down for a reason, but somehow that shithole defied physics. The warehouse district was usually a pretty easy patrol. We checked it often enough that prostitutes and johns looked for easier grounds. Drug deals would crop up in unusual places. The dealers could figure out what our regular walk was, then do their deal out of the way. Occasionally we'd check around a different corner, or get a feeling and take a slightly different route, and then at least get a decent chase in, but other than that there was little excitement. That Thursday I had taken my usual route though. I really didn't expect anything strange to happen. A patrol car passed and had just disappeared around a corner when the shit hit the fan. A body hit the pavement about 50 feet in front of me. The torso bounced an inch or two, and the legs ended up a little tangled, but essentially the body just splat on the pavement. The noise had been sickening. My mind evacuated my body, and I ran towards the fallen human. The skull cracked open. The whole body looked a little flatter and thinner than it should have. Fluids slowly leaked out of the person's face and onto the ground. Instinctively, I looked up. What light there was from the moon made it impossible to see the face of the person looking down at me, but a silhouette against the night sky remained for a second, then ducked back into the building it was a part of. It was some sort of unfinished construction. It was six stories at the time, and my silhouette had poked his head out the sixth. I started towards the building before remembering to radio back for help. Training shouldn't fail you right when you need it; I was lucky. If they could reach that damn patrol car, it couldn't be more than a mile away by now. No luck. The radio was static. I hesitated for a minute, hoping that the dispatcher would answer on the other end. I called six times before I decided to give up. With no radio comm, I'd have to explore the premises myself. I took my flashlight in the left hand, gun in the right, and proceeded into the building.
