---
title: ''
date: 
draft: true
tags: ['Blog']
---

Benny watched as the metal roll-up door slowly slid open in front of him at the base of the loading dock in the second sub-basement.  It looked like a mouth opening to welcome him into the movement.  Not that anybody would know Benny committed this act in the morning...  Not that anybody from UTwoSixThreeEh was going around welcoming anybody into their movement. The door stopped at the top of its track, and an empty dark room stared back at him.  Benny flicked on his flashlight and pointed it towards the back where he caught the glint of a narrow window in a door.  The service elevator's shaft was dark, so Benny thumbed the call button. When it arrived, Benny stepped into the service elevator of the Loundes Bank office building.  Dingy fabric covered the walls, the light in the ceiling flickered, and the metal wall protector had more dents than straight segments.  Ben ignored the required key-card, but put his hand in his shirt before hitting the button for floor 18 out of 25.  It started upwards, juddering. On the previous Friday Ben had entered this same elevator and inserted into the key-card slot an old credit card he had pulled from a Starbucks trash.  He took a Sharpie out of his pocket and made a line across the card at the spot where the card stuck out of the reader, then removed the card.  Ben folded the card in half just short of where he had drawn the line, then worked the card back and forth across the fold.  The plastic started to heat, and turn white, across his fold.  He tore the card across the fold, and jammed the broken card into the key slot.  He pushed it in a little further with the remaining bit of card. Later that day the janitorial staff had complained about the broken service elevator, the elevator repair company couldn't make it out right away, and the building management had disabled the key-card security feature. The elevator chimed and opened onto a back hallway on floor 18.
