---
title: 'Building Autograding Projects in Phanon'
date: 
draft: true
tags: ['Blog']
---

Phanon is an online programming exercise system built by Idaho State University and Utah State University. It supports Python right now. They plan to release the source code soon, but it's already available for anyone to go use.

It supports two types of workflow for students - exercises and projects. Both support instructors providing guidance for the students, and for executing code that students paste into Phanon. Projects record students' progress over time on the result, and do not provide feedback for students. Exercises, on the other hand, execute arbitrary code around a student's submission and can provide feedback.

I've been setting up an online Python introduction course for Idaho State University, modifying their existing course to work in an online format. One goal with that course is to automatically grade student assignments - providing them immediate feedback about their code and simplifying grading.

I chose to use Phanon exercises because - \*TODO\*

Some recommendations for building auto-grading assignments are to: \* TODO - expound \*  
\- have a template that you base each assignment around, both in instruction format and in grading code  
\- have an standardized automated grade and test system that's flexible enough you can adapt it to each of your cases simply  
\- have the grade and test system able to nicely format the test cases and grading criteria so you can paste it into the instructions  
\- just like in the testing world, it's easiest if you can specify what type of functions and arguments the students must create  
\- however this isn't always possible. You can embed the student code in a function  
\- you can steal the print and input statements to examine what they're doing with those  
\- you can steal modules too - like the turtle module  
\- build your teacher example, your grading code, and the top matter, in separate files. Put them all in one folder / pycharm project so you can easily run your grading code on your example. Do the edits in those files and copy them into Phanon.

Provide the grading system, test case system example...
